
README File for Photo Manipulation Project
Photo Manipulation in Python
Welcome to the Photo Manipulation in Python project! This project allows you to apply filters and adjust the brightness, contrast, and blur of images. It is built using the Pillow library , which makes image manipulation simple and efficient. Follow the instructions below to get started.

Table of Contents
Introduction
Features
How It Works
Installation
Usage
Interactive Mode
Sample Input and Output
Contributing
License
Introduction
This project demonstrates basic image manipulation techniques such as adjusting brightness, contrast, and applying a blur effect. Using Python's Pillow library , you can easily modify images with just a few lines of code. The program also supports an interactive mode where users can customize these adjustments dynamically.

Features
Brightness Adjustment : Make images brighter or darker.
Contrast Adjustment : Increase or decrease the contrast of an image.
Blur Effect : Apply Gaussian blur to soften the image.
Interactive Mode : Customize brightness, contrast, and blur interactively.
Easy to Use : Minimal setup required—just install Pillow and run the script.
How It Works
The program uses the Pillow library to:

Open an image file.
Adjust brightness, contrast, and blur based on user-defined parameters.
Save the modified image to a new file.
Installation
Install Pillow :
Run the following command to install the Pillow library:
bash
Copy
1
pip install pillow
Download Starter Files :
Download sample images (e.g., example.jpg) and place them in the same folder as the script.
Alternatively, use your own images.
Usage
Step 1: Run the Script
Run the script using Python:

bash
Copy
1
python photo_manipulation.py
Step 2: Modify Parameters
Edit the script to adjust brightness, contrast, and blur values:

Brightness : 1.0 = no change, <1.0 = darker, >1.0 = brighter.
Contrast : 1.0 = no change, <1.0 = lower contrast, >1.0 = higher contrast.
Blur : 0 = no blur, higher values = more blur.
Example:

python
Copy
1
2
3
brightness_level = 1.5  # Brighter
contrast_level = 1.2    # Higher contrast
blur_amount = 2.0       # Slight blur
Step 3: Save the Output
The modified image will be saved as output.jpg.

Interactive Mode
For a more dynamic experience, use the interactive version of the script:

Run the script.
Enter the input image file name (e.g., example.jpg).
Provide values for brightness, contrast, and blur when prompted.
The program will generate the modified image and save it to the specified output file.
Sample Input and Output
Input
Original Image: example.jpg
Brightness: 1.5
Contrast: 1.2
Blur: 2.0
Output
Modified Image: output.jpg (brighter, higher contrast, and slightly blurred)
Contributing
We welcome contributions to improve this project! Here's how you can contribute:

Fork the repository.
Create a new branch for your feature/fix.
Submit a pull request with a detailed description of your changes.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License . Feel free to use, modify, and distribute the code as per the license terms.

Credits
Pillow Library : Used for image manipulation.

anipulation! 🎨📸