Markov Chain Text Composer
Welcome to the Markov Chain Text Composer project! This project generates text (e.g., song lyrics, poems, or any creative text) using a Markov Chain model . It’s a simple yet powerful tool to explore artificial intelligence and text generation in Python.


The Markov Chain Text Composer is a beginner-friendly Python project that demonstrates how probabilistic models can be used to generate text. By feeding the program a corpus of text (e.g., song lyrics, poems, or stories), it creates new text that mimics the style and structure of the input.

This project is an excellent introduction to artificial intelligence concepts like natural language processing (NLP) and text generation.

Features
Text Generation : Generate new text (e.g., song lyrics) based on an input corpus.
Customizable : Adjust the input text, starting word, and output length.
No External Libraries : Uses only Python's built-in libraries (random).
Lightweight : Minimal code with clear explanations.
Creative Output : Fun and engaging way to experiment with AI-generated text.
How It Works
Input Corpus : Provide a sample text (e.g., song lyrics, poems, or any text).
Build Markov Chain :
Split the text into words.
Create a dictionary where each word maps to a list of possible next words.
Generate Text :
Start with a given word.
Randomly select the next word from the Markov chain.
Repeat until the desired length is reached.
Output : The program outputs a sequence of words that mimic the style of the input text.
Installation
Prerequisites :
Ensure you have Python 3.x installed on your system.
No external libraries are required.
Download the Code :
Copy the provided Python script into a file named markov_chain.py.
Prepare Input Text :
Add your own text corpus (e.g., song lyrics, poems) to the input_text variable in the script.
Usage
Run the script:
bash
Copy
1
python markov_chain.py
Modify the following parameters in the script:
input_text: Replace with your own corpus of text.
start_word: Choose a starting word for text generation.
length: Specify the number of words in the generated text.
View the output in the terminal.
Sample Input and Output
Input
plaintext
Copy
1
2
I love music. Music makes me happy. Happy days are here again.
Love brings joy. Joy is everywhere. Everywhere I look, I see love.
Output
plaintext
Copy
1
2
Generated Lyrics:
Love brings joy. Joy is everywhere. Everywhere I look, I see love. Love brings joy. Joy is everywhere.
Extending the Project
Here are some ideas to enhance the project:

Character-Level Markov Chain :
Instead of splitting by words, split by characters to generate text at a finer level.
Larger Corpus :
Use a large dataset of text (e.g., books, articles, or song lyrics) to train the Markov Chain.
GUI Interface :
Add a graphical interface using libraries like tkinter for user interaction.
Save Generated Text :
Save the generated text to a file for later use.
Advanced Features :
Experiment with higher-order Markov Chains (e.g., predict based on the last two words instead of one).
Contributing
We welcome contributions to improve this project! Here’s how you can contribute:

Fork the repository.
Create a new branch for your feature/fix.
Submit a pull request with a detailed description of your changes.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License . Feel free to use, modify, and distribute the code as per the license terms.


Enjoy creating your own Markov Chain Text Composer! 🎵📝